---
title: release v2.1.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2019-01-03T00:55:09Z
description: "globs, save cmd out, backwards compatible context change for multi-key steps"
draft: false
lastmod: 2019-01-03T00:55:09Z
publishdate: 2019-01-03T00:55:09Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v2.1.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v2.1.0
## globs, save cmd out, backwards compatible context change for multi-key steps
Release Date: 2019-01-03T00:55:09Z

- ATTENTION, FUTURE WARNING: all built-in steps that used to take multiple input keys now instead take a dict input. This makes life significantly easier if you re-run the step in the same pipeline in that you don't have to clear down context before the subsequent step runs anymore. 
  - The old-style is now deprecated - for the moment pypyr will make the old-style work seamlessly for you by creating the new keys under the hood for you and raising a warning without stopping, but be aware legacy support will be removed on the next major release.
  - Affected steps are: 
    - assert
    - env
    - fileformat
    - fileformatjson
    - fileformatyaml
    - filereplace
    - tar
- enable globbing on file format and file replace style steps. ref #58 
- pypyr.steps.debug for easy pretty print debugging to the console ref #95
- contextsetf allows formatting on key now too, not just value, ref #96
- pypyr.parser.dict to parse input key value pairs into a specified context key. ref #97
- pypyr.steps.shell/safeshell can save return code, stdout and stderr. ref #71
- rename pypyr.steps.safeshell to pypyr.steps.cmd
  - the old name (safeshell) will keep on working as an alias for the new name.
  - the functionality is exactly the same, so this is not a breaking change.
  - hopefully "cmd" is less confusing than "safeshell" as to what it does, especially with contrast to pypyr.steps.shell
- make built-in context parsers input arguments optional to allow pipelines with context_parsers to be executed with or without the 2nd argument from the cmd line. ref #69

You can find [pypyr release v2.1.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v2.1.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

