---
title: release v3.2.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2020-04-04T13:33:40Z
description: "nested call inside loops & in context clearing preview"
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-04-04T13:33:40Z
publishdate: 2020-04-04T13:33:40Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v3.2.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v3.2.0
## nested call inside loops & in context clearing preview
Release Date: 2020-04-04T13:33:40Z

ATTENTION: Please start preparing all your pipelines to be ready for the next major release where `in` context arguments will be removed from context on step completion. This shouldn't be too much of an issue. For any steps where you need to set enduring context, use `contextsetf` or `contextset`.

- Allow using a `call` control-of-flow instruction nested inside while/for/retry loops. Previously a nested call instruction would over-write the parent call's configuration and thus create confusion on the next loop round the parent. Much thanks 🙏 to @Reskov for identifying this tricky little recursion issue & assistance in resolution. Close #176 
- `in` context parameters only available for the duration of the step they decorate. Previously `in` items would be added to context and stay in context after the step finishes. This is a potentially breaking change for existing pipelines, but worth it, full discussion of reasons here #177. 
  - For this release this change in functionality is not the default, but enabled by setting the following environment variable `PYPYR_IN_CLEAN = 1`. You can set it selectively on a single pypyr run using standard shell syntax like:
`$ PYPYR_IN_CLEAN=1 pypyr mypipeline arg1 arg2`
  - README updates to document #177 resolution as the default behaviour - `in` context parameters cleaned from context on step completion to prepare for next major release with the breaking change..

You can find [pypyr release v3.2.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr-cli/releases/tag/v3.2.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

