---
title: release v4.0.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2020-08-17T19:27:51Z
description: "Stop in failure handlers. `in` context cleanup default."
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-08-17T19:27:51Z
publishdate: 2020-08-17T19:27:51Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v4.0.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v4.0.0
## Stop in failure handlers. `in` context cleanup default.
Release Date: 2020-08-17T19:27:51Z

- BREAKING CHANGE: final deprecation of [in args scope]({{< ref "/docs/decorators/in#scope">}}) persisting after step execution. For full discussion please see #177.
  - Preview functionality where setting environment variable `$PYPYR_IN_CLEAN = 1` is now the default. You can remove the `$PYPYR_IN_CLEAN` variable from this release onwards. Henceforth pypyr removes `in` args from context after step completes.
  - If you want to persist values in context beyond the current step, use [pypyr.steps.contextsetf]({{< ref "/docs/steps/contextsetf">}}), [pypyr.steps.contextcopy]({{< ref "/docs/steps/contextcopy">}}) or [pypyr.steps.default]({{< ref "/docs/steps/default">}}).
- BREAKING CHANGE: [pypyr.steps.assert]({{< ref "/docs/steps/assert">}}) now raises an `AssertionError` rather than a `ContextError`. Ref #188.
- The cli now defaults to a simplified log format that is way less noisy. If you still want the full, old style logs, run pypyr with `--log 25` set explicitly. `pypyr my pipe --log 25`. Ref #187 
  - `description` decorator output also simplified to echo only your actual custom text.
- [Failure Handlers]({{< ref "/docs/getting-started/error-handling#failure-handlers">}}) now support Stop instructions. This allows you to exit the failure handler reporting success, so pypyr can report success if you consider the error condition handled. Ref #175.
- `pypyr.steps.contextset` renamed [pypyr.steps.contextcopy]({{< ref "/docs/steps/contextcopy">}}). The old name will keep on working, but with a deprecation warning. Ref #184.
- internal: improvements to integration testing error reporting.

You can find [pypyr release v4.0.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v4.0.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

