---
title: pypyr release v4.2.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2020-10-30T00:27:59Z
description: "flat & recursive format, !jsonify, parsejson."
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-10-30T00:27:59Z
publishdate: 2020-10-30T00:27:59Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v4.2.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v4.2.0
## flat & recursive format, !jsonify, parsejson
Release Date: 2020-10-30T00:27:59Z

- python 3.9 compatibility officially confirmed & enforced in CI. All good. Woo! 🎉
- New Flat `ff` and Recursive `rf` formatting specifiers. #195
    - Check [recursive vs flat format expressions]({{< ref "docs/substitutions/format-string#recursive-vs-flat-format">}}) for full documentation.
    - Maintain backwards compatibility for all current formatting functionality.
    - The `get_formatted_string`, `get_formatted_iterable` & `get_processed_string` methods on `Context()` are now all deprecated. Use `get_formatted_value` instead. All of the deprecated functions will keep on working as before, but will print a WARN to the output. 
    - `get_formatted` and `get_formatted_value` remain the official best ways of getting formatted values.
- New `!jsonify` yaml special tag directive. This converts a context object to a json string. #197.
    - Check [how to serialize or convert an object into json]({{< ref "/docs/substitutions/jsonify" >}}) for details.
- New `pypyr.steps.jsonparse` step. Parse and deserialise a json string into Context. #199
    - Check [how to parse a json string into an object]({{< ref "docs/steps/jsonparse" >}}) for full documentation.
- Bare `pypyr.steps.assert` syntax. #196
    - Use the new [simplified assert format]({{< ref "/docs/steps/assert" >}}).
- Minor api improvements unlikely to be of interest except for the very enthusiastic
    - Add new `utils.asserts` for extra flexibility with nested key validation.
    - PyStrings optimized. Not so that you'd notice, but still, it'll be a smidge faster.
- Friendlier error messages when yaml/json context parsers reject documents that do NOT have a mapping at root.
- Update [pypyr-aws release 1.2.0](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr-aws/releases/tag/v1.2.0) to work with new `ff`/`rf` formatting functionality.
- pypyr-slack python 3.9 compatibility officially confirmed & included in CI. No release necessary.

You can find [pypyr release v4.2.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v4.2.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

