---
title: pypyr release v4.3.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2020-11-12T20:36:36Z
description: "streamlined api main() entry-point"
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-11-12T20:36:36Z
publishdate: 2020-11-12T20:36:36Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v4.3.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v4.3.0
## streamlined api main() entry-point
Release Date: 2020-11-12T20:36:36Z

This one is for all the API consumers! The new API entry-point is likely to be
useful to anyone who wants to pass regular Python objects directly to pypyr,
rather than have to mediate through a string-based cli-orientated
`context_parser` first.

- Streamline main entrypoint API. close #201.
  - [main()]({{< ref "/docs/api/run-pipeline#main-entry-point" >}}) allows
    consumer to set pype loader, rather than having to drop further down into
    api to `load_and_run_pipeline()`
  - new [main_with_context()]({{< ref
    "/docs/api/run-pipeline#main-with-context-entry-point" >}}) allows you to
    use a standard Python dict to initialize context and bypass the pipeline's
    `context_parser` entirely.
    - Also returns the `Context` object after pipeline run completes. This
      allows api consumers to interact directly with the context objects created
      by the pipeline.
  - make all non-essential args optional to allow minimal calls to the main
    entry-points without having to add `optional=None` style inputs.
  - All of this is fully backwards compatible.
- Some improvements to [pypyr.steps.pype]({{< ref "/docs/steps/pype" >}})
  - defaults `useParentContext` to `False` is `pipeArgs` specified.
  - `pipeArgs` shlex-es input string under the hood.
  - set `pipeline_name` on child pipeline rather than use parent pipeline name
- `working_dir` on `pypyr.moduleloader` uses `Path` object rather than string.
  This is not something that a pipeline author or api consumer should even
  notice.
- `pypyr.steps.echo` remove redundant string check. This is a slight performance
  improvement, but you're unlikely to notice the difference.

You can find [pypyr release v4.3.0 on
github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v4.3.0), where you can click
through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

