---
title: pypyr release v4.4.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2020-12-26T15:50:27Z
description: "simplified py step syntax & imports for !py strings."
draft: false
lastmod: 2020-12-26T15:50:27Z
publishdate: 2020-12-26T15:50:27Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v4.4.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v4.4.0
## simplified py step syntax & imports for !py strings.
Release Date: 2020-12-26T15:50:27Z

- New step [pypyr.steps.pyimport]({{< ref "/docs/steps/pyimport" >}}) to import
  references to the `!py` string namespace.
    - This includes an underlying api signature change by removal of
      `pypyr.utils.expressions.eval_string()`, but this is sufficiently far down
      the call-chain that it shouldn’t affect any normal pipeline operator or
      api consumer.
- [pypyr.steps.contextclearall]({{< ref "/docs/steps/contextclearall" >}}) wipes
  `pyimport` imported references in addition to the key/values inside context.
- Simplify `pypyr.steps.py` syntax by allowing a new `py` (rather than `pycode`)
  input. This allows pipeline authors to use context key names directly as
  variables, rather than have to specify them as keys in context (`my_var` vs
  `context[‘my_var’]`).
    - See [pypyr.steps.py]({{< ref "/docs/steps/py" >}}) for details on how to
      use the new style input.
    - the old `pycode` style will keep on working in the same way, so no need to
      worry about backwards compatibility for your existing pipelines.
- Allow substitutions on [retry]({{< ref "/docs/decorators/retry" >}}) `max`.
  Resolves #207. Excellent bug find & fix by @Reskov, much thanks 🙌 🙌 🙌  as
  ever for a superb contribution! 🔥 🔥 🔥
- `foreach` can now use any iterable, including generators. See how you can use
  this for [flattening nested for loops]({{< ref
  "/docs/decorators/foreach#flatten-nested-loops" >}}) to simplify your
  pipelines when you have multiple nested `foreach` loops.

## how to upgrade
If you want to upgrade (and you totally should!): 

```text
$ pip install --upgrade pypyr
```

## source
You can find [pypyr release v4.4.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v4.4.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

