---
title: pypyr release v5.0.0
# linktitle: fall back to title
date: 2021-11-20T13:17:39Z
description: "Relative pipelines + API breaking changes."
draft: false
lastmod: 2021-11-20T13:17:39Z
publishdate: 2021-11-20T13:17:39Z
seo_article_headline: pypyr release v5.0.0
# seo_description: fall back to description
---
# pypyr release v5.0.0
Release Date: 2021-11-20T13:17:39Z

Implement [adr2 relative pipelines + api changes](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/blob/main/docs/adr/0002-relative-pipelines-api-changes.md).

In brief, this release lets pipelines reference custom modules & child pipelines relative to the pipeline itself, rather than the current directory. This lets you create portable, re-usable & composable pipeline libraries.

## breaking changes
This is a major version increment because it comes with BREAKING CHANGES:
1. API: `pipelinerunner.run()` replaces both `pipelinerunner.main()` and `pipelinerunner.main_with_context()`
2. API: `def get_pipeline_definition(pipeline_name, working_directory)` signature for custom pype loaders changes to `def get_pipeline_definition(pipeline_name, parent)`
3. CLI: the `—dir` flag now only sets the directory for ad hoc custom Python modules, it does NOT also set the directory for pipelines anymore
4. Final removal of deprecated `get_formatted_iterable`, `get_formatted_string` #195  & `pypyr.steps.contextset` #184. Where previously these would just give deprecation warnings, they are now completely removed. 
5. `pypyr.pypeloaders.fileloader` renamed `pypyr.loaders.file`

## non-breaking changes
- You can now access the current pipeline’s metadata & loader information from within a pipeline with `context.current_pipeline`
- Improve handling of absolute paths in file loader only to search path once, rather than unnecessarily go through the same relative path lookup sequence with the same path.
- Typing support added for the pypyr API entrypoint.

## upgrade guide
### pipeline authors
Your pipelines can now references custom modules (e.g custom steps) and child
pipelines you call with [pypyr.steps.pype]({{< ref "/docs/steps/pype" >}})
relative to the pipeline itself.

Assume a file structure like this:
```text
/Users
    |- captainhook/
        |- my-pipelines/
            |- subdir/
                |- my-pipe.yaml
                |- mystep.py
                |- sub-pipe.yaml
```

That you used in a pipeline like this
```yaml
# ~/my-pipelines/subdir/my-pipe.yaml
steps:
    - name: pypyr.steps.pype
      comment: old way. reference child relative to working dir.
      in:
        pype:
            name: subdir/sub-pipe # Looks for subdir/sub-pipe relative to $PWD
    - subdir.mystep # looks for subdir/mystep.py relative to $PWD
```

This old way of doing things meant that you could ONLY run this pipeline from
the `~/my-pipelines` directory, because all the references in the pipeline are
relative to the working directory.

{{< app-window title="term" lang="text" >}}$ cd ~/my-pipelines
$ pypyr my-pipe # this will work

$ cd ~
$ pypyr my-pipelines/my-pipe # this will not work

# you would've had to set --dir to get this to work
$ pypyr my-pipe --dir my-pipelines # this will work
{{</ app-window>}}

So forget about all that nonsense. As of now you can put your references
relative to the pipeline itself, like this:
```yaml
# ~/shared-pipelines/subdir/my-pipe.yaml
steps:
    - name: pypyr.steps.pype
      comment: new better way. resolves relative to current pipeline dir.
      in:
        pype:
            name: sub-pipe # sub-pipe.yaml in same dir as current pipeline
    - mystep # looks for mystep.py relative to current pipeline
```

You can now run your pipeline from anywhere:
{{< app-window title="term" lang="text" >}}$ cd ~/my-pipelines
$ pypyr my-pipe # this will work

$ cd ~
$ pypyr my-pipelines/my-pipe # this will also work
{{< /app-window >}}

Woohoo! 🎉 This means you can now make re-usable, composable shared pipeline
libraries that you can call from anywhere on your system!

See here for more details on the
[pipeline name resolution look-up order]({{< ref "/docs/pipelines/lookup-order" >}}).

### cli
If you were using the `--dir` flag, now you only need to set `--dir` if your
pipeline references custom modules or child pipelines that are NOT in the
pipeline's direct parent directory and NOT in the current working directory.

{{< app-window title="term" lang="text" >}}# to run pipeline mydir/mypipe.yaml
# custom modules & child pipelines in mydir/
# the old way
$ pypyr --dir mydir mypipe

# the new way
$ pypyr mydir/mypipe

# to run pipeline mydir/subdir/mypipe.yaml
# custom modules & child pipelines in mydir/
# the old way
$ pypyr --dir mydir subdir/mypipe

# the new way
$ pypyr mydir/subdir/mypipe --dir mydir
{{< /app-window >}}

In short, you very probably shouldn't be using the `--dir` flag anymore.
Instead, change your pipelines to resolve child pipelines & custom modules
relative to itself as described in the [previous section for pipeline
authors](#pipeline-authors). The only likely reason to be using `--dir` is if
your custom modules live in a completely separate different filesystem location
than the pipelines.


### api entrypoint
A single `run()` function replaces both `main()` and `main_with_context()`.

The old:
```python
pipelinerunner.main(pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
                    pipeline_context_input=['arbkey=pipe', 'anotherkey=song'])
```

becomes:
```python
pipelinerunner.run(pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
                   args_in=['arbkey=pipe', 'anotherkey=song'])
```

The old:
```python
context_out = pipelinerunner.main_with_context(
    pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
    dict_in={'arbkey': 'pipe',
             'anotherkey': 'song'})
```

becomes:
```python
context_out = pipelinerunner.run(pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
                                 dict_in={'arbkey': 'pipe',
                                          'anotherkey': 'song'})
```

See here for full details on
[how to use the new pipeline runner api]({{< ref "/docs/api/run-pipeline" >}}).

#### py_dir replaces working_dir
Be aware that the `working_dir` input doesn't exist anymore. The new `py_dir`
input ONLY refers to the directory from which to load custom Python modules. The
pipeline name does NOT resolve relative to `py_dir` as it used to for
`working_dir`:

The old:
```python
context_out = pipelinerunner.run(pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
                                 dict_in={'arbkey': 'pipe',
                                          'anotherkey': 'song'},
                                 working_dir=Path.cwd())
```

becomes:
```python
context_out = pipelinerunner.run(pipeline_name='pipeline-dir/my-pipe',
                                 dict_in={'arbkey': 'pipe',
                                          'anotherkey': 'song'},
                                 py_dir=Path.cwd())
```

You do NOT need to set `py_dir` if your pipeline only references custom modules
that are in the pipeline's directory itself.

You do NOT need to set `py_dir` if you are not using any custom modules, or if
your custom modules are installed in the current python environment.

Only use `py_dir` if your custom modules are NOT installed in the current python
environment and they are NOT relative to the pipeline's directory.

See here for a full description of the
[pypyr custom module resolution order]({{< ref "/docs/api/custom-module-search-path" >}}).

### custom pype loader
If you have a custom pype loader with a signature like:
```python
def get_pipeline_definition(pipeline_name, working_dir):
```

Replace it with the function signature:
```python
def get_pipeline_definition(pipeline_name, parent):
```

Just this change should be sufficient for most cases. Be aware that unlike the
old `working_dir`, `parent` will always be `None` for the 1st/root pipeline in a
call-chain.

The full new function signature is:
```python
get_pipeline_definition(name: str, parent: Any) -> pypyr.pipedef.PipelineDefinition | Mapping
```

If you wanted to, you can now add extra metadata properties from your custom
loader by setting a `pypyr.pipedef.PipelineInfo` object and returning it in
a `pypyr.pipedef.PipelineDefinition` from your custom `get_pipeline_definition`
function. This is entirely optional - if you want to keep on returning just the
bare yaml dict-like payload, feel free to keep on doing so.

See here for full details on [how to use the new custom pipeline loader]({{< ref "/docs/api/pipeline-loader" >}})

Oh, and BONUS! If you are using a custom pype loader, your pipeline authors do
NOT explicitly need to set the custom loader on every child pipeline anymore on
[pypyr.steps.pype]({{< ref "/docs/steps/pype#loader" >}}) - the parent's loader
will automatically cascade to the child!

## detailed technical breakdown
- Introduce new classes to model pipeline payload, rather than just using the bare dict-like yaml directly.
    - `PipelineInfo` - pipeline metadata set by loader. This maintains a pipeline’s parent/path info so that child pipelines can load relative to the parent.
    - `PipelineDefinition` - this wraps the pipeline payload and its metadata (`PipelineInfo`) to allow pypyr to cache it all with one reference
- Add new `Pipeline` class for the run-time properties of a single run.
    - The `Pipeline` references the shared cached `PipelineDefinition`.
    - Move run + load_and_run logic from pypyr.pipelinerunner to the new `Pipeline` class. This massively streamlines the pipeline invocation process, since run/load_and_run can just operate on the shared `Pipeline` state rather than sling a bunch of args between different functions as before.
- Add a call-stack of running `Pipeline` instances on `Context`. i.e Parent -> child1 -> child2 where the root pipeline calls child pipelines via `pype`
    - Add `current_pipeline` attribute to `Context`, controlled with a context manager to scope itself to an individual pipeline run’s lifespan.
        - This means that steps can access current pipeline’s properties.
        - This allows `pypyr.steps.pype` to find the current (i.e parent) pipeline’s metadata such as path, to load child pipeline relative to the calling pipeline’s location.
        - When a child pipeline completes, the calling pipeline (i.e the previous `Pipeline` in the call-stack) becomes the current pipeline
- Amend `pypyr.steps.pype` to instantiate `Pipeline` object to `load_and_run()` child.
    - `pype` now deals the `context.current_pipeline.pipeline_definition.info` metadata to work out whether to cascade parent path down to child, so child can load relative to the parent.
    - Notably, the parent loader now cascades to the child, so pipeline authors don’t need explicitly to set the same custom loader repeatedly for each child.
    - Given the context manager controlling current pipeline scope in `Pipeline.load_and_run_pipeline` remove the clumsy side-shuffle for pipeline_name, working_dir to swap out these values as child pipe runs and swap these back when it completes/errors.
- Remove global PipelineCache. Replace with distinct pipeline cache per loader.
    - This resolves a long standing limitation where pypyr assumed unique pipeline names across all loaders.
    - The per-loader pipeline cache stores `PipelineDefinition` objects.
    - Introduce `Loader` class, which wraps loader & its pipeline cache. `Loader` is what the `LoaderCache` caches.
    - Thus `LoaderCache` -> `Loader` -> `_pipelineCache` -> `PipelineDefinition`
- File loader has a  private file cache keyed on absolute path of file
    - This is to prevent >1 load+parse where the same underlying pipeline.yaml file has different names in the loader’s pipeline cache
        - e.g `(name=‘dir/mypipe’, parent=None)` and `(name=‘mypipe’, parent=‘dir’)` both resolve to `dir/mypipe.yaml`
    - Caching a reference to the `PipelineDefinition` object, so not duplicating memory
- Improve handling of absolute paths in file loader only to search path X1, rather than unecessarilly go through the same relative path lookup sequence with the same path.
- File loader `get_pipeline_definition` now returns a `PipelineDefinition` with `PipelineFileInfo` to store file-system specific metadata for the loader pipeline
- Remove `working_dir` global. The `py_dir` input on `run()` now refers ONLY to module paths, NOT pipeline locations.
    - The CLI `—dir` flag, or `py_dir` input on `run()` basically adds the specified directory to `sys.path`.
- Add current pipeline’s parent directory to `sys.path` on load. This allows child pipelines to resolve custom modules relative to itself.
- `pypyr.dsl.Step` does not need `StepsRunner` anymore, because it can get it from the `context.current_pipeline` instead.
- Recode (some) integration tests to take advantage of list `pypyr.steps.append` step and checking that for output on return context rather than intercepting logger.NOTIFY.
- Rename master branch to main in CI/CD GitHub actions
- Add typing annotations to the public `run()` function and the `Pipeline` class public accessors. The idea is NOT to type pypyr exhaustively, just to provide annotations for the sensible/likely entrypoint to enhance API user experience. Include `py.typed` in `pypyr` package.
- Remedy packaging snafu where `tests.common` was deploying alongside pypyr because exclude condition in `find_packages` didn't include wildcard for sub packages.

## what's changed
* Relative pipelines & API run() replaces main/main_with_context by @yaythomas in https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/pull/243


**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/compare/v4.6.0...v5.0.0

## how to install upgrade
If you want to upgrade (and you totally should!): 

```text
$ pip install --upgrade pypyr
```

## source
You can find [pypyr release v5.0.0 on github](https://github.com/pypyr/pypyr/releases/tag/v5.0.0), where you can 
click through to associated Issues, Pull Requests and Users.

Released by [yaythomas](https://github.com/yaythomas).

